{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 1. What is Computer?\par
- A computer is a complex machine that is programmed to perform various tasks. This device circulates its function on manipulating the information and data stored on the system. This includes storing, retrieving, and processing the data.\par
\par
2. What are the essential parts of computer?\par
- The ten(10) major parts of a computer are the [Central Processing Unit (CPU), Motherboard, Random Access Memory (RAM), Read-Only Memory (ROM), Video Graphics Array Port (VGA), Power Supply, Cooling Fan, Hard Drive, Display Monitor, and Keyboard]\par
  1. The Central Processing Unit serves as the coordinator of communication among different parts.\par
  2. The Motherboard supplies the assistance for electrical/power needs of every parts included on the entire system.\par
  3. The Random Access Memory stores, process, and commands every bits of data on the machine ensuring to make them work actively and smoothly.\par
  4. The Read-Only Memory acts as the permanent storage of the computer. It retains major instructions and data even when the power is out.\par
  5. The Video Graphics Array Port is the one responsible for connecting the computer to its screen. Making the information available visually.\par
  6. The Power Supply is the source and fuel of the entire computer unit by its ability to provide electricity.\par
  7. The Cooling Fan is crucial for maintaining the required temperature of a system unit. It circulates air within the system ensuring an optimal boost for the computer's functioning/performance.\par
  8. The Hard Drive is a storage device that house files, information, programs, and data. \par
  9. The Display Monitor are where you can view the information, programs and the whole operation of the system. \par
  10. The keyboard is used as an input tool for text, characters, and commands. This is an essential especially with communicating with the computer. These texts and commands are responsible for every function that is instilled on a computer unit.\par
\par
3. Who are the notable inventors of hardware and software? Cite at least (5) Software developers and (5) Hardware developers.\par
- (5) Hardware developers\par
  1. Federico Faggin(Inventor of the first CPU) - The "Intel 4004" was created by said Italian Physicist in 1971.\par
  2. Patty McHugh(Inventor of the first Motherboard) - The "Planar Breadboard" was created by the said IBM engineer in 1981.\par
  3. Karl Ferdinand Braun(Inventor of the first Monitor) - The "cathode-ray tube (CRT)" was created by the said "Father of the Monitor" in 1897.\par
  4. Christopher Latham Sholes(Inventor of the first Keyboard) - The "QWERTY keyboard" was created by the said American inventor in 1874.\par
  5. Douglas Engelbart(Inventor of the first Computer Mouse) - The so called "first computer mouse" was created by the said American inventor in 1970.\par
\par
  (5) Software developers\par
  1. Bill Gates(Microsoft) - The "Microsoft" was founded by Bill Gates alongside Paul Allen on April 04, 1975. Microsoft products became significant in our daily lives by its useful tools such as Word, Excel, Powerpoint and etc.\par
  2. Mark Zuckerberg(Facebook) - The "Facebook" was founded Mark Zuckerberg alongside his colleagues in February 04, 2004. Facebook has been one of the key contributor of communication around the globe with its vast popularity.\par
  3. Paul Buchheit(Gmail) - The "Gmail" was project started by the said developer which then is launched on April 01, 2004. Gmail has been one of the major communication tools especially in professional world.\par
  4. Tim Bray(XML) - The "XML" was founded by the gorup of Tim Bray in the late 1990s. XML outlines the rules and protocols used to define, store, and share data between computer systems. These rules simplify data exchange between websites, applications, and databases on any network.\par
  5. Ada Lovelace(First programming language) - The "Ada programming language" was created in 1980. The first programming language served as a model for other programming languages which then now we have tons of languages to choose from.\par
\par
REFERENCES:\par
GCFGlobal Learning. (n.d.). Computer basics: What is a computer?. GCFGlobal.org. {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://edu.gcfglobal.org/en/computerbasics/what-is-a-computer/1/ }}{\fldrslt{https://edu.gcfglobal.org/en/computerbasics/what-is-a-computer/1/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22  \par
Tech, A. B. (2024, January 4). 10 Main Components of a Computer System and their Functions. A Better Tech. {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://bettercomputertech.com/2024-01-04-ten-components-functions/ }}{\fldrslt{https://bettercomputertech.com/2024-01-04-ten-components-functions/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
Powell, P. (2024, May 20). The history of the central processing unit (CPU). IBM Blog. {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.ibm.com/blog/central-processing-unit-history/ }}{\fldrslt{https://www.ibm.com/blog/central-processing-unit-history/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
\u8204?Volle, A. (2023, April 21). Motherboard | Definition, History, & Facts | Britannica. {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK Www.britannica.com }}{\fldrslt{Www.britannica.com\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 . {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.britannica.com/technology/motherboard }}{\fldrslt{https://www.britannica.com/technology/motherboard\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
Father of Monitor \f1\endash  Know Who Invented Computer Monitor & How! (n.d.). Testbook. {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://testbook.com/articles/father-of-monitor }}{\fldrslt{https://testbook.com/articles/father-of-monitor\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
The Editors of Encyclopedia Britannica. (2019). Christopher Latham Sholes | American inventor. In Encyclop\f0\'e6dia Britannica. {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.britannica.com/biography/Christopher-Latham-Sholes }}{\fldrslt{https://www.britannica.com/biography/Christopher-Latham-Sholes\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
History.com Editors. (2015, October 9). Microsoft founded. HISTORY; A&E Television Networks. {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/microsoft-founded }}{\fldrslt{https://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/microsoft-founded\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
History.com Editors. (2019, October 24). Facebook launches. HISTORY; A&E Television Networks. {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/facebook-launches-mark-zuckerberg }}{\fldrslt{https://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/facebook-launches-mark-zuckerberg\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
Today In History: Google Launches Gmail | April | 2022 | Blog | Gottesman Libraries | Teachers College, Columbia University. (n.d.). Teachers College - Columbia University. {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://library.tc.columbia.edu/blog/content/2022/april/24703---today-in-history-google-launches-gmail.php }}{\fldrslt{https://library.tc.columbia.edu/blog/content/2022/april/24703---today-in-history-google-launches-gmail.php\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
Introducing XML, its history, what it is, its significance. (n.d.). {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK Www.itwriting.com }}{\fldrslt{Www.itwriting.com\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 . {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.itwriting.com/xmlintro.php }}{\fldrslt{https://www.itwriting.com/xmlintro.php\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
Kanade, V. (2023, March 8). Understanding XML, Its Elements, and Benefits | Spiceworks. Spiceworks. {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.spiceworks.com/tech/tech-general/articles/what-is-xml/ }}{\fldrslt{https://www.spiceworks.com/tech/tech-general/articles/what-is-xml/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
Ada | computer language. (n.d.). Encyclopedia Britannica. {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.britannica.com/technology/Ada-computer-language }}{\fldrslt{https://www.britannica.com/technology/Ada-computer-language\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
}
 